Welcome back! So, as a
result of playing on the mobile, there's a couple of tweaks
we can make. So, in this video, we're going to make a simplification,
by removing a script
altogether. It's just something that Marco spotted. Thanks for that,
Marco! Number 2, we're going to destroy tagged objects,
when our win condition comes up. So, at the moment
that "You Win" text appears in front of,
sorry behind the defenders, and that looks really bad,
but we also have another "You Win" issue, which is that my
wife tells me that it looks a bit strange that the
attackers and defenders keep moving, when we win.
So, we can solve all of that, by just destroying all
of the game objects, when we win, and we'll
learn about tags as well. And we'll add a simple
Stop Button to the game, so that people can actually get out of it
if they want to. Cool! So firstly, let's make the
simplification to the Music System. So, if you
remember over in our Start Scene, we've got this Scripts object
with this start SetStartVolume script, attached
to it, which is quite a long script
does a load of stuff. Let's get rid of it! We don't need it at all! OK,
all we need is this line here. PlayerPrefsManager.GetMaster
Volume(); so, I'm going to copy that, and then,
I'm going to boldly delete, not only the Scripts object
on the Start Menu, but if we go into the Scripts
Folder, I'm also going to delete the actual script, which is called
SetStartVolume. And then, if you go
into your MusicManager, in the Start of the Music
Manager, you can simply in there go
audioSource
.volume
= PlayerPrefsManager.Get
MasterVolume(); and as a
recap, what that's doing is it is ensuring that when we
start the game,
we get the Splash Screen with it's default level sound,
and then, we want on this scene the volume to be loaded. And it
is! If I set my volume down, to a quarter,
and then play again from the Splash Screen,
we can confirm that, that
Start method is indeed setting the volume
from the Player Prefs. Fantastic! So, that item is done!
Thanks, Marco! Number 2, we want to destroy all tagged
objects on Win condition. So, what I mean by
that is, at the end of the game, when we win,
I want everything that is tagged with
destroy to disappear immediately,
before the "You Won!" comes up over the top. I want all the play
space to clear, so how are we going to achieve that?
Well, let's create a tag and stick it on
the appropriate defenders, etc. So, say I stick this
tag on just the cactus and the gnome, for now.
So, select the cactus and gnome or a couple of your
defenders, for testing purposes. Go over
into the Inspector and click on Tag
and then Add Tag.
Fantastic! So then, once we've done
that, we're going to create ourselves a new tag
called DestroyOnWin. So, I've got a mess
here, I don't need this win, I just need a single sized
tag array, Destroy
OnWin. I recommend you copy that, so that
we paste it perfectly into the script later on.
So, that's creating the tag, but you still need to
apply it to the cactus and gnome, so you can multi-select
and then Apply DestroyOnWin. I'm only doing those
two for now, just for testing.
OK, so where are we going to make this destroy
OnWinBehavior happen? Well, it's going to happen over
on the Game Timer, because that's the thing
that actually does the win. So, I'm going to get you
started, and then, once you're started I'm going to
leave it to you to do the meat
of this thing. It's pretty simple. So,
what happens in this method? This Update is getting to
big, so it basically updates the slider, every frame,
and then, it says if the time's up
then do something. When it's the time up
and it's the end of the level, do something. So, I'm going to refactor
out this body of this Update, because it's gotten too big.
So, I'm going to highlight it all, refactor, extract
method, bring it down, and then
call it Handle
WinCondition ();
so that operates exactly the same, it's just much clearer to read
what's happening in Update. Now, HandleWinCondition () does everything else.
So, what I want to do is immediately
that the WinCondition happens, I want to do one more thing, which is
DestroyAllTagged
Objects();
OK, and that's a method, which you're going to write in a second.
So, here's the signature for it, void DestroyAllTagged
Objects(), and what I want that method to
do is to just go through and destroy all objects
with a tag. And let's put this in the comments.
"// Destroys all objects
with". Now, we need to go and get
the tag name again, because I've overwritten it,
into one of your objects, into the defenders
into the Tag Menu, destroyOnWin. And it's really
important to get that capitalization right.
OK, so "// Destroys all objects with
destroyOnWin tag". So, that's what I want you to write.
I want you to write a method, that goes and finds all those objects
hits right through them and destroys them. Here's your challenge slide!
You can test by setting on all but
one defender type, so what I'm saying there is, you could put down maybe a gnome
and a cactus and a gravestone, and you should see at the end of that level that, just the
gnome and the cactus disappear but the gravestone stays.
If you want a stepping stone, to make sure it's not destroying
absolutely everything. And then, tag everything,
all your defenders, attackers, and projectiles, everything
that you want to destroy at the end of the level when you win, and then
test by playing it. So go ahead, pause the video do that challenge
now!
Cool welcome back! So, let's
get this done! It isn't too tricky, really!
So, we need a GameObject array. Why not an object
array? Well, you could use an object, but
we may have problems with finding
appropriate methods to find objects and with destroying objects. So, Game
Object is the correct level to work at.
So, if we call this Game
Object array taggedObjectArray, then how do we
find it? Well, it's GameObject.find.
And then, I'm going to introduce you to a new one here. FindGame
ObjectsWithTag, and if you look at the method for that, it
returns a GameObject array, which is just what we want.
Then, as a string, we give it this ("destroyOnWin")
string. Fantastic! So now, we have an array of GameObjects.
So, it's now literally a question of just iterating over
to them. Foreach, then just kind of speak
in English. I would
consider iterating over Objects
other than GameObjects here, but I think either will work.
Let's start with GameObjects for simplicity and see if it works.
For each (GameObjectTagged
Object in taggedObjectArray,
what are we going to do? Well, we're simply going to
Destroy (taggedObject);
Alright, let's try it!
So, I may need to go to my Level Canvas
and my Game Timer. I'll just show you that code again,
for a second. That's my final code, I know I flicked off it
a bit too quick. So, this is my solution,
let's try it. OK, so the Game Timer I'm going to set
down to say 6 seconds, for a minute, just to check it.
Let's try running, putting these
guys down, and seeing if they get destroyed.
"YOU WON!" and off they go!
Perfect! So, that's working really well.
OK fantastic! So, that's the method we need.
I just need to now go ahead and tag and prefab everything
correctly, so let's do that! Let's go into our prefabs.
All of our Defenders, tag them with destroyOnWin,
all of our Attackers, tag them with destroyOnWin,
and all of your Projectiles, tag with destroy
OnWin. Remember to leave your game timer as something sensible,
100 works really well with the Glitch Garden
music I chose. After three levels the music just about stops.
The final thing you need to do is, re-prefab...
No you don't, that's fine! You've effected the
prefabs directly, so that's fine. That's working really,
really well. If you want to check it you're welcome to, but I'm
confident that, that logic will work. So, what's the last thing we
going to be doing?
Add a simple Stop Button to the game. So, what I'm thinking
is maybe down at the bottom right somewhere. Remember, inside the iPad
Safe Play Area, so perhaps here
where my mouse is pointing right now, just
there. Put a Stop Button. I've got
a Stop Image in the Course Assets, which you can get access to,
and what I want you to do is make it yourself. The Stop Button wants to simply
take them back to the Start Scene. And for extra credit,
it would put a popup, allowing them to continue or
not. So, have a go at just making a simple Stop Button
now, that takes people back to the Start Scene.
OK, so hopefully this
is a relatively simple job. Let's give it a go! I'm going to import an asset.
You can go and get this from anywhere, by the way. Just go to Google Images and
search for a stop sign. This is really not a particularly cleaver image.
We don't need Mip Maps on it. Where are we going to
put it? I'm going to put it in the Buttons Prefab. There's already
a Buttons Prefab here and a Buttons Canvas Element,
and within that, I'm going to create a UI image.
I'm going to give that image the
sprite, which is the stop sign. It must be assigned as a sprite.
It's massive, at the moment! Arguably bigger than we need
but that's OK. In the UI Editor Mode,
I'm going to squeeze that right down holding down Shift as I do,
so that it resizes without changing its proportions.
You may have to do this a couple of times to get it down
to the size you need. I'm
going to pop mine right down, in the bottom here.
Don't be afraid to zoom right in, so you can see what
you're doing in these instances, and then,
it's just a question of resizing it right down
and popping it somewhere like that. Perfect! OK,
so what else are you going to need on this button, in order for it to respond to
mouse presses? Well, I'm going to give it a sensible
name, Stop. But you're going to need a collider on it, right?
So, a Box Collider 2D would do absolutely fine
and it can be a trigger. The final thing we're going to need is a script
to handle a click. So, I'm just going to call it StopButton
very cryptically. Put it in this
Scripts Folder, and then,
go edit that Stop Button Script. And that
Stop Button Script is simply going to say the following:
void OnMouseDown(),
and then now, we need to load level.
We're going to load the Start Scene. Let's get the exact name
of it 01a Start, as a string.
LevelManager, remember it's a
static, so we don't even need to worry about whether it's here
or do we? Well, let's try it! LevelManager dot...
You see, we need to be careful about which Level
Manager is which. This is a type LevelManager now,
but we do need to find an instance of the Level
Manager, so we are going to have to do that at the Start.
Have a think about a script that already does this, finding
the LevelManager, like the LoseCollider. It already
does the private LevelManger levelManger; levelManger =
GameObject.FindObjectOfType, so copy
that. Why not get a leg up? Paste that in to
your Stop Button. And then,
you can use the instance of the LevelManger. Here he is,
.LoadLevel, and now we just give it that
string name. Oops, not that string name, but
the Start Menu string.
And that's it! Let's have a go!
Let's check that, that Stop Button works, and then all we have to do is prefab it.
Stop and it takes you back here! OK, it's pretty
jarring, and it would be better if you want to do the extra credit of having a popup
screen, but I think we could refine this game forever
and never get on with the rest of the course or courses. So,
I think that this is a great position to stop. It's a playable fun game
now. All we have to do is apply this Buttons Prefab
back, so apply that to the prefab.
Click on Buttons in your Hierarchy, and apply in the Inspector,
at the top right. Go to your prefabs and check that the button
contains a Stop Element. It does! Go to your other scenes,
all of your other levels, and make sure
that under Buttons, click on Buttons and click Revert and that will
take you back to the prefab. And do the
same in the other level, if you need to. You don't in this one, because the prefab
connection was maintained. So now, all of your levels
have this Stop Button in them, and you are good to
go. So congratulations! You really have finished
Glitch Garden now. I really look forward to seeing what you
come up with, seeing what assets you find or create
and what you can make. I look forward to all your tweaks. We get
so excited by what you guys share! Please build to
the web now, zip it up, stick it on Game Bucket, and share
share it in the community and share it on the Facebook group. So,
thank you very much for being our student, on this section and in this course,
and we'll see you soon!